date: 2020-04-02
title: Setting Up a Website
status: hidden

  Let's say you want to host your own website at home. Nothing fancy - just a couple of static pages you wrote after teaching yourself HTML. You've got a little webserver running on your computer, works great - and you want to show it to the world. What do you need to do?

  Well, first you need a domain name. No problem, you can grab one from a number of places. You need a name server - you aren't quite sure what that is, but your domain name provider provides that too. You know you need to point it to your home home IP address - you've heard of those. You know how to find out your home IP address - so you enter that and - nothing.

  A little more searching tells you there is an interal and external IP address. You read up on the commands to find your interal that, log in to your home router and enter that - after learning learning how ports work. Success! You can see your website!

  Your browser is telling you it is "not secure" though. Strange. A little bit more digging and you learn about 'https' 'letsencrypt' and 'certificates'. At this point you are starting to get a little frustrated, but you forge on. After a weekend of mucking about with the command line (which you weren't planning on learning how to use, but oh well), you manage to get letsencrypt running on your  machine, and your website is online!

  Until the next morning - when all you get from your browser is "Hmm. We’re having trouble finding that site". Frustration building, you find out there is no guarantee that you internet service provider wont  change your IP address randomly - you learn you'll need to either get a static IP address (if your service provider offers one), or use a dynamic DNS service, like duckDNS -  another program you will need to start running on your desktop. But you get that all set up, change your nameserver settings, and you site come back online. Until you reboot your computer, and find out that you aren't garunteed to get the same interal IP address from your router either...

So - the concepts you will need to learn to configure are:
- internal vs external IP address
- router configurations
- ports
- dynamic DNS
- nameserver configuration
- transport layer security and certificates


  All for getting your two simple "hello world" pages online. Doesn't this seem more complicated than it needs to be?

  Of course, if you are an experienced computer user, these concepts are old hat. But for a beginner, or someone who might be more interested in creating websites rather than configuring networks.

  They could use a service like github pages or something similar but there isn't any resourcing reason I couldn't just use my home server, so why does someone else have to manage it?

This is why I really like the DAT protocol and the  Beaker Browser.
